docs: add extend-chaos-daemon-interface (#125)
chaos-mesh/website: docs/extend-chaos-daemon-interface.md

---
title: Extend Chaos Daemon Interface
sidebar_label: Extend Chaos Daemon Interface
---

In [Add new chaos experiment type](add-new-chaos-experiment-type.md), you have added HelloWorldChaos, which can print `Hello World!` in the logs of Chaos Controller Manager. To enable the HelloWorldChaos to inject some faults into the target Pod, you need to extend interface for Chaos Daemon.

> :::note

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::Note
```

It's recommended to read [Chaos Mesh architecture](architecture.md) before you go forward.
:::

This document covers:

- [Selector](#selector)
- [Implement the gRPC interface](#implement-the-grpc-interface)
- [Verify the experiment](#verify-the-experiment)

## Selector

In `api/v1alpha1/helloworldchaos_type.go`, you have defined `HelloWorldSpec`, which includes `ContainerSelector`:

```go
// HelloWorldChaosSpec is the content of the specification for a HelloWorldChaos
type HelloWorldChaosSpec struct {
    // ContainerSelector specifies target
    ContainerSelector `json:",inline"`

    // Duration represents the duration of the chaos action
    // +optional
    Duration *string `json:"duration,omitempty"`
}

...

// GetSelectorSpecs is a getter for selectors
func (obj *HelloWorldChaos) GetSelectorSpecs() map[string]interface{} {
    return map[string]interface{}{
        ".": &obj.Spec.ContainerSelector,
    }
}
```

> In Chaos Mesh, Selector is used to define the scope of chaos experiment, the target namespace, annotation, label, etc. Selector can also be some more specific values (for example, AWSSelector in AWSChaos). Usually, each chaos experiment requires only one Selector, with exceptions such as NetworkChaos because it sometimes needs two Selectors as two objects for network partition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Chaos Mesh, Selector is used to define the scope of a chaos experiment, the target namespace, annotation, label, etc. Selector can also be some more specific values (for example, AWSSelector in AWSChaos). Usually, each chaos experiment requires only one Selector, with exceptions such as NetworkChaos because it sometimes needs two Selectors as two objects for network partition.
```

## Implement the gRPC interface

To allow Chaos Daemon to accept the requests from Chaos Controller Manager, you need to implement a new gRPC interface.

1. Add the RPC in `pkg/chaosdaemon/pb/chaosdaemon.proto`:

    ```proto
    service chaosDaemon {
       ...

       rpc ExecHelloWorldChaos(ExecHelloWorldRequest) returns (google.protobuf.Empty) {}
    }

    message ExecHelloWorldRequest {
       string container_id = 1;
    }
    ```

    You need to update the Golang code generated by this proto file:

    ```bash
    make proto
    ```

2. Implement gRPC services in Chaos Daemon.

>     In the `pkg/chaosdaemon` directory, create a file named as `helloworld_server.go` with the following content:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    In the `pkg/chaosdaemon` directory, create a file named `helloworld_server.go` with the following contents:
```

    ```go
    package chaosdaemon

    import (
    "context"
    "fmt"

    "github.com/golang/protobuf/ptypes/empty"

    "github.com/chaos-mesh/chaos-mesh/pkg/bpm"
    pb "github.com/chaos-mesh/chaos-mesh/pkg/chaosdaemon/pb"
    )

    func (s *DaemonServer) ExecHelloWorldChaos(ctx context.Context, req *pb.ExecHelloWorldRequest) (*empty.Empty, error) {
    log.Info("ExecHelloWorldChaos", "request", req)

    pid, err := s.crClient.GetPidFromContainerID(ctx, req.ContainerId)
    if err != nil {
        return nil, err
    }

    cmd := bpm.DefaultProcessBuilder("sh", "-c", fmt.Sprintf("ps aux")).
        SetNS(pid, bpm.MountNS).
        SetContext(ctx).
        Build()
    out, err := cmd.Output()
    if err != nil {
        return nil, err
    }
    if len(out) != 0 {
        log.Info("cmd output", "output", string(out))
    }

    return &empty.Empty{}, nil
    }
    ```

>     After `chaos-daemon` receives the `ExecHelloWorldChaos` request, you will see a list of processes in the current container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    After `chaos-daemon` receives the `ExecHelloWorldChaos` request, you can see a list of processes in the current container.
```

    
    _, err = pbClient.ExecHelloWorldChaos(ctx, &pb.ExecHelloWorldRequest{
        ContainerId: containerId,
    })
    if err != nil {
        return v1alpha1.NotInjected, err
    }
    
    return v1alpha1.Injected, nil
    }
    
    // This corresponds to the Recover phase of HelloWorldChaos. The reconciler will be triggered to recover the chaos action.
    func (impl *Impl) Recover(ctx context.Context, index int, records []*v1alpha1.Record, obj v1alpha1.InnerObject) (v1alpha1.Phase, error) {
    impl.Log.Info("Recover helloworld chaos")
    return v1alpha1.NotInjected, nil
    }
    
    func NewImpl(c client.Client, log logr.Logger, decoder *utils.ContianerRecordDecoder) *common.ChaosImplPair {
    return &common.ChaosImplPair{
        Name:   "helloworldchaos",
        Object: &v1alpha1.HelloWorldChaos{},
        Impl: &Impl{
            Client:  c,
            Log:     log.WithName("helloworldchaos"),
            decoder: decoder,
        },
        ObjectList: &v1alpha1.HelloWorldChaosList{},
    }
    }
    
    var Module = fx.Provide(
    fx.Annotated{
        Group:  "impl",
        Target: NewImpl,
    },
    )
    ```

>     :::note

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    :::Note
```

    ```log
    2021-06-25T06:25:13.048Z        INFO    chaos-daemon-server     ExecHelloWorldChaos     {"request": "container_id:\"containerd://af1b99df3513c49c4cab4f12e468ed1d7a274fe53722bd883256d8f65bc9f681\""}
    2021-06-25T06:25:13.050Z        INFO    background-process-manager      build command   {"command": "/usr/local/bin/nsexec -m /proc/243383/ns/mnt -- sh -c ps aux"}
    2021-06-25T06:25:13.056Z        INFO    chaos-daemon-server     cmd output      {"output": "PID   USER     TIME  COMMAND\n    1 root      0:00 sleep 3600\n"}
    2021-06-25T06:25:13.070Z        INFO    chaos-daemon-server     ExecHelloWorldChaos     {"request": "container_id:\"containerd://88f6a469e5da82b48dc1190de07a2641b793df1f4e543a5958e448119d1bec11\""}
    2021-06-25T06:25:13.072Z        INFO    background-process-manager      build command   {"command": "/usr/local/bin/nsexec -m /proc/243479/ns/mnt -- sh -c ps aux"}
    2021-06-25T06:25:13.076Z        INFO    chaos-daemon-server     cmd output      {"output": "PID   USER     TIME  COMMAND\n    1 root      0:00 sleep 3600\n"}
    ```

    You can see `ps aux` in two separate lines, which are corresponding to two different Pods.

>     :::note

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    :::Note
```

    If your cluster has multiple nodes, you will find more than one Chaos Daemon Pod. Try to check logs of every Chaos Daemon Pods and find which Pod is being called.
    :::

## Next steps

> If you encounter any problems in this process, raise an [issue](https://github.com/pingcap/chaos-mesh/issues) in the Chaos Mesh repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you encounter any problems in this process, create an [issue](https://github.com/pingcap/chaos-mesh/issues) in the Chaos Mesh repository.
```

> You may be curious about how all of this comes into effect.Try reading the README files of different `controllers` in the `controller` directory to learn their functionalities. For example, [controllers/common/README.md](https://github.com/chaos-mesh/chaos-mesh/blob/master/controllers/common/README.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are curious about how all of these come into effect, you can read the README files of different `controllers` in the `controller` directory to learn their functionalities. For example, [controllers/common/README.md](https://github.com/chaos-mesh/chaos-mesh/blob/master/controllers/common/README.md).
```

> Now you are ready to become a Chaos Mesh developer! Go to the [Chaos Mesh](https://github.com/chaos-mesh/chaos-mesh) repository to find a [good first issue](https://github.com/chaos-mesh/chaos-mesh/labels/good%20first%20issue) and get started!Will delete this sentence.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now you are ready to become a Chaos Mesh developer! You are welcome to visit the [Chaos Mesh](https://github.com/chaos-mesh/chaos-mesh) repository to find a [good first issue](https://github.com/chaos-mesh/chaos-mesh/labels/good%20first%20issue) and get started!
